Hidden Markov models, or
HMMs as they're known to their friends,
are a useful tool for looking at
pattern recognition through time.
They're similar to other Markov models,
in that they have states that represent
a set of observed phenomena, and
a set of transitions that describe how
we can move from one state to another.
We'll be considering first order Markov
models which only depend on the state
immediately preceding them and
not a history of states.
Hidden Markov models
are a variant that are used for
recognition of many types of signals
that have a language-like structure.
>> What's hidden about them?
>> With HMM,
we don't necessarily know which
state matches which physical event.
Instead, each state can
yield certain outputs.
We observe the output over time and
determine a sequence of states,
based on how likely they
were to produce that output.
>> I see, since HMMs and codes sequences
over time, we could use them for
recognizing things like speech,
handwriting or gesture.
>> Exactly, and
HMM researchers have spent decades
figuring out tricks like state tiling,
context, stochastic grammars and
boosting to improve performance.
In this lecture,
we will start with how to decode an HMM,
where we calculate which model
best fits the sequence of data.